>> Anjana Vakil: So what we're going
to do in our next exercise, first,
we're gonna start with reading some code.
Then we're gonna move on
to writing some code.
So in this case, we're gonna look at
alternative implementations of [LAUGH]
Every functional programming
student's favorite function,
the factorial computation.
Which if you wanna check out the what
factorial is a math class refresher,
there's a Wikipedia link, but essentially,
we're gonna give it an integer,
and it's going to compute the factorial
of that integer, right so
like
>> Anjana Vakil: Factorial of 3 is what 1
times 2 times 3?
Check my math [LAUGH] And so that's
what we want this function to compute.
Basically that number and all of its
smaller numbers multiplied together.
Similar to some, but
same thing but different.
So for right now, let's just take one
minute and read through this factorial
JS just read it just ask yourself, A,
what does each of these functions do?
And B,
do you find one of them more readable?
Easier to understand?
Do you find one less readable?
Less easy to understand?
This is totally subjective but
let's take a moment, read through, and
we will discuss.
>> Anjana Vakil: So
let's take a look at well, first of,
do y'all find one of these easier to read?
This is a subjective thing,
there is no correct answer.
Who finds imperative
factorial easier to read?
Okay, I see a couple hands who finds
recursive factorial easier to read?
Zero hands, all right why?
And again, subjective,
we're just talking about our feelings.
It's good stuff, crucial to software
development, I'm not even kidding.
>> Speaker 2: Just like as I'm reading it,
it feels like there's a little
bit more mental gymnastics.
I have to think about like keeping
track of how it's changing, and
like referencing itself.
>> Anjana Vakil: Okay,
in in recursive factorial,
>> Speaker 3: Go to the bottom and
then start again and
go to the bottom and start again, where,
typically, we learn to read left to right,
top to bottom here in the west, and that's
what a lot of us are used to and so.
When you read something that says do this,
then this, then this,
then this it's like, okay,
that's like a recipe I can follow that.
>> Anjana Vakil: Exactly.
>> Speaker 3: Whereas this says,
do this and then start over again and
do it again it's like,
>> Speaker 2: And
then there's an abstract yeah.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Anjana Vakil: Great and so
we have to kind of think about that, for
example, the order of execution might
be a little surprising here, and if you
want to, you can mess with this code.
You can add, I'll even let you add
in pure console logs, just for
the sake of learning or
what have you to satisfy yourself of like,
how this function is doing what it does.
But you're right there's a lot of kind of
like, we have this sort of almost muscle
memory built in, especially as programmers
who are used to working with JavaScript.
Most of the code that we see is
imperative code, largely imperative code,
not all of it, like I said,
callbacks are everywhere.
That's functional cool beads but
if we're used to reading while loops and
for loops, something new is
gonna feel a little weird.
Hopefully by the end of this course,
and certainly by the end of the rest
of the courses in the functional
programming path, it will feel a lot
more natural to be working with recursion
instead of while loops in this case.
But there is a certain element
to which recursion is just sort
of one of those things that makes
sense to a functional program
more than it might to a human brain.
So that's why we're gonna spend so
much time practicing it.